---
sidebar_position: 2
---

# System Features

## General Features

The PIP System is currently hosted by web hosting provider (Z.com) which uses cPanel. The backend system was built using 
[PHP-Laravel](https://laravel.com) as a REST API provider. The frontend was built using [React](https://reactjs.org) and
[Ant Design](https://ant.design). The mobile application was built using [ReactNative](https://reactnative.dev).

The system can be run in any browser that supports javascript. For best results, however, please use Google Chrome or 
other Chrome-based browsers, e.g. Microsoft Edge, Brave, etc.

## Security Features

Only authorized users will be able to access the system through the username and password
provided. System logs, which contain electronic record of transactions/interactions in the
system, will be generated by the system to ensure accountability on information encoded in
the system.

### Roles

| Role                  | Dashboard | PIP/CIP/TRIP  | Consolidation | Tracker   |
|:---------------------:|:---------:|:-------------:|:-------------:|:---------:|
| Program Encoder       | &#9745;   |               | &#9745;       |           |
| Program Consolidator  | &#9745;   | &#9745;       | &#9745;       |           |
| PIP Encoder           | &#9745;   | &#9745;       | &#9745;       |           |
| IPD                   | &#9745;   | &#9745;       | &#9745;       | &#9745;   |
| PDS/SPCMAD            | &#9745;   | &#9745;       |               |           |
| Admin                 | &#9745;   |               |               |           |

### Active Role

Users may be assigned more than one role in the system, and with it, availability and accessibility different system features.
To avoid confusion, the system implements an "Active Role" feature which allows users to switch between assigned roles. An
example of this is IPD staff being both Program Consolidators and PIP reviewers. Having both roles active at once could be 
confusing for the user. So instead, users are given the capability to toggle between roles that are assigned to them. Having
one role at once can also allow for a more focused use of the system.

:::info
Toggling between roles only affects the features shown in the frontend, i.e. user interface. The user will still be able to access
features that are available in ALL their existing roles.
:::
